Docs - Edit Tutorial (#1054)
iotaledger/iota.js: documentation/docs/tutorials/value-transactions/01-introduction.md

# Stardust for iota.js: Value Transactions

> In this series, you will This series of how-to pages is intended to Javascript developers that want to get familiar

Reviewer: check phrase

---

> description: "Get acquainted with the structure and functionality of transactions in IOTA's Stardust protocol in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "Learn the structure and functionality of transactions in IOTA's Stardust protocol in the
```

A slightly shorter version.

Author: It should be Lean about the structure, which isn't that much shorter.

> Shimmer network using iota.js primitives to issue value transactions."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Shimmer network by using iota.js primitives to issue value transactions."
```

image: /img/client_banner.png
keywords:

- tutorial
- UTXO
- transactions
- shimmer
- ledger
- outputs
- inputs

---

# Stardust for iota.js: Value Transactions

> This tutorial will guide you as you get acquainted with the structure and functionality of transactions in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial will get you acquainted with the structure and functionality of transactions in
```

IOTA's [Stardust protocol](https://wiki.iota.org/shimmer/introduction/welcome) in
the [Shimmer network](https://shimmer.network) using [iota.js](https://github.com/iotaledger/iota.js) primitives to
issue value transactions.

## Introduction

Starting from [Chrysalis](https://wiki.iota.org/introduction/welcome), IOTA is

> a [UTXO-based (Unspent Transaction Output)](https://wiki.iota.org/introduction/reference/details#unspent-transaction-output-utxo)
> Ledger. Each UTXO, also known as  **output**, has an associated number of tokens that determines its value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a [UTXO-based](https://wiki.iota.org/introduction/reference/details#unspent-transaction-output-utxo)
Ledger, where UTXO means *unsepnt transaction output*, or just *output* for short. Each UTXO has an associated number of tokens that determines its value.
```

Thus, the permanent data on the ledger is composed of a set of records (*outputs*) that can be unlocked by the owner of
its associated address, i.e., the one who knows the address' private key.

There are different [output types](https://wiki.iota.org/shimmer/learn/outputs). This tutorial series will only focus on

> traditional value outputs known as [`IBasicOutput`](./../../references/client/interfaces/IBasicOutput.md). Outputs are

Reviewer 2: I don't think that "traditional" is a right word here.

Author: ```suggestion
value outputs known as [`IBasicOutput`](./../../references/client/interfaces/IBasicOutput.md). Outputs are
```

outputs turn into inputs and generate new outputs. At pruning time, *consumed outputs* will be removed by Nodes.
However, they might be stored permanently by Nodes that have enabled
the [INX Chronicle](https://wiki.iota.org/shimmer/chronicle/welcome) plugin.
Each output in the Ledger has a unique identifier as it has each transaction that mutates the Ledger state by
manipulating other outputs.

## Storage Costs and Deposits

UTXOs need to be stored by [Hornet Nodes](https://wiki.iota.org/shimmer/hornet/welcome), so there is a storage cost.
The Stardust protocol defines a parameter, named ["vByte cost"](../../references/client/interfaces/IRent#vbytecost),
that establishes the cost of storage of each "virtual byte" in *Glow* (one Glow corresponds to 0.000001 Shimmer).
As each output consumes a number of vBytes in the Ledger, it is a necessary condition for an output
to cover the vByte cost with its value in the Ledger. This means that Nodes will reject transactions
whose outputs do not meet this condition. For instance, in the current Shimmer network, you cannot
send `1 Glow` to a new output because the [storage deposit cost](09-understanding-deposits.md) of such an output will be

> higher. The size of a UTXO and its cost depends structurally on the type and any additional data it may carry.

Reviewer 2: Is this information really relevant for the tutorial? Can't we just link an article from the explanations?

Author: I think it is, as the last steps in the tutorial focus on reducing storage deposit costs by sweeping outputs.  That being said, we can always restructure, it's what this PR is about for the most part :)
